So I want to be able to click a list item here and load the appropriate user detail component and pass
the parameter to it,
well nothing easier than that. In UserStart.vue file which is where I have these list items, I will
simply replace list item with router link again to
well use this router link component the vue router ships with,
so let me quickly replace all of that with this.
And of course I still want to use the list item,
so therefore I will quickly add tag equals list item there.
So with this, my router links are now set up, of course I also need to add to tag or to attribute
to be precise
so I'll quickly restructure this so that this becomes easy to read
and the first route here shall navigate to what now.
Well it should navigate to /user,
this is my main route here
and then for user 1, it shall add /1 to it.
So in UserStart, this will go to /user 1
and of course in a real application, you might dynamically fill that from an array
and keep in mind you can bind this dynamically by using colon too,
now you could bind it to a property which contains this path.
So this is the first user here, here I'll use the static setup without binding it to a property
and now I do have three different routes.
Now let's see this in action if I load this and
now click on this,
we load user 1, user 2, user 3, as we can see in the URL.
That's great,
now let's also extract the data in the user detail component. To do this,
I go to the user detail component of course, here I'll also wrap this in a div
and now I want to extract the user data, so in a paragraph, user loaded has ID and then output the ID here.
Now I could again store this in a property but since this actually is a route which will not be updated
without me navigating back to another route, I can simply say $route.params.id.
Let's see this in action,
path one, path two, path three,
again I don't need to watch these changes because if I am on this user detail component, there is no
way for me to click anywhere to load the user with id 2
and if I manually enter it here, it will get reloaded anyways. So therefore I don't need to have my set
up here where I watch for changes in the route params because that could not happen.
The component will get recreated anyways because I have to navigate away and then reload it because I'm clicking
a new link.
So this is how this works and how now, I use a nested component with parameters to extract parameters
and am nested in another component.